name	base	comment	lang	location
human		A variety of ethnic groups make up the human populace of the continents bordering Golarion’s Inner Sea. Many of these groups have origins on distant lands, but the Inner Sea region has a diverse population drawn from across the globe. Human characters can be from any of these ethnicities, regardless of what land they call home.		Golarion
Garundi	human	Garundi span the nations of northern Garund along the shores of the Inner Sea, and their clans are known for strength and empathy, treating their neighbors with compassion and respect. Their skin tones often range from dark brown to beige, and they often have tall statures, broad shoulders, and high cheekbones.	Osiriani	Garund
Keleshite	human	Tracing their origins to the Keleshite Empire in the eastern deserts, Keleshites often have black hair, brown eyes, and dark- to cool-brown skin. Their culture takes pride in the empire’s legacy, valuing boldness, wit, and luxury. Fashions tend to incorporate flowing fabrics, headdresses, and turbans.	Kelish	Kelesh
Kellid	human	In the mountains and steppes of northern Avistan, Kellids live hard lives to survive the threats of the wild, wary of magic and relying on skill and might when hunting and fighting. They are typically a brawny and dark-haired people, tanned and bearing eyes that are often black, blue, or gray.	Hallit	Avistan
Mwangi	human	Spread across the vast continent of Garund, from the parched deserts in the north to the dense jungles of the Mwangi Expanse, the Mwangi people are divided into four diverse subgroups: Bekyar, Bonuwat, Mauxi, and Zenj. Mwangi skin tones range from black to dark-brown to ocher, and they have black or dark-brown hair.	Mwangi	Garund, Mwangi Expanse
Nidalese	human	Nidalese hail from a culture that escaped destruction during the Earthfall, when a swarm of meteoroids carved out the Inner Sea. The ancient Nidalese pledged fealty to an evil shadow god to obtain salvation, and the grip of Zon-Kuthon has tainted these people ever since. Nidalese tend toward gray, ashy skin tones, with white, gray, or black hair.	Shadowtongue
Shoanti	human	The Shoanti clans called quahs were long ago pushed out of lush territory in the nation of Varisia into the harsh badlands of the Storval Plateau. Stalwart and tenacious, they remain oath-sworn to someday retake what they’ve lost. Their skin tones typically range from sepia to russet, and quah members are easily identified by their shaved heads and traditional tattoos.	Shoanti	Varisia
Taldan	human	Renowned as artisans, scholars, and soldiers, Taldans have spread throughout Avistan, as the empire of Taldor once spanned almost half of the northern continent. Taldans often have brown hair, pale-white to deep-bronze skin, and green, gray, or amber eyes.	Taldane	Taldor
Tian	human	Few in number in the Inner Sea region, Tians originally come from myriad nations in Tian Xia, a continent on the opposite side of the world. They typically have dark hair, but their body types, skin tones, and eye colors vary greatly, as 'Tian' is in fact a general term describing several ethnicities.	Tien	Tian Xia
Ulfen	human	The coastal raiders of the Ulfen clans are skilled sailors and bodyguards. They’re often tall, with pale to ruddy skin and blond, light-brown, or red hair. They typically show pride in their appearances by adorning themselves with furs, horn, and ivory.	Skald
Varisian	human	Varisians historically favored a nomadic life of roving caravans, but today many lead a settled lifestyle in places like Ustalav and their namesake land. Their skin tones typically range from tawny beige to khaki. They have a wide variety of hair colors from platinum to red to brown, and their large, expressive eyes range into even rarer colors like violet and gold.	Varisian	Ustalav
Vudrani	human	Though the empire of Vudra is far to the east, it has a foothold in the Inner Sea on the island of Jalmeray. A widespread belief in reincarnation makes dedication to self-improvement a hallmark of Vudrani culture. Vudrani typically have dark eyes and skin tones that run from umber to tawny. Their hair is often black and ranges in thickness and texture. Piercings, jewelry, and makeup are common adornments among Vudrani.	Vudrani	Jalmeray, Vudra
dwarf		For untold eons, the dwarven people dwelled in the lightless reaches of the Darklands.		Darklands, Golarion
Grondaksen dwarves	dwarf	still dwell in the upper reaches of the Darklands
Ergaksen dwarves	dwarf	the most widespread heritage, and those who dwell on or adjacent to the surface world
Holtaksen dwarves	dwarf	the least populous—dwarves who dwell only among the highest mountain reaches
Elf		Golarion is not the original elven home world, but those elves who dwell here today are considered native to the planet. These people first came to Golarion from the neighboring planet of Castrovel via a network of portals known as aiudara. While elves abandoned Golarion for several thousand years after the devastation of Earthfall, they have since returned in force.		Golarion, Castrovel
Aiudeen	elf	The most populous elves are the Aiudeen, elves who have acclimated to temperate forest lands. These are the elves who rule the nation of Kyonin and are most often encountered in other societies.		Kyonin, Golarion
Mualijae elves	elf	To the south, the Mualijae elves have acclimated to the sweltering jungles of the Mwangi Expanse.		Mwangi Expanse
Ilverani elves	elf	Far to the north the Ilverani elves (known to some as the snowcasters) dwell in the frozen reaches of Irrisen and beyond in the Crown of the World.		Irrisen
Vourinoi elves	elf	The Vourinoi elves of Garund’s deserts are the most secretive of the elven ethnicities.		Garund
Gnome		Since arriving on Golarion, gnomes have transitioned fully to creatures of the Material Plane, although they all live in fear of the life-threatening condition known as Bleaching.		First World, Golarion
Feychild gnomes	gnome	Feychild gnomes are the most widespread.		Golarion
Glimmer gnomes	gnome	Glimmer gnomes retain a stronger tie to the First World, while others known as fell gnomes have embraced the darker traditions of their fey heritage.		Golarion
Keenspark gnomes	gnome	Keenspark gnomes (jokingly referred to as 'sour gnomes') seek to avoid the Bleaching by exploring new innovations rather than seeking new experiences or exploring the world.		Golarion
Goblin		Although many adventurers might assume a goblin is a goblin, these scrappy and creative people are as diverse as any other ancestry.		Golarion
Rasp goblins	goblin	The most widespread are the rasp goblins, so named for the large numbers who have traditionally dwelled along the rugged coastlines of Varisia’s west coast, a region known as the Rasp.		Varisia, Golarion
Forest goblins	goblin	Forest goblins tend to be smaller than the other ethnicities and are located mostly in central Avistan. Their numbers are only now beginning to recover from the horrors of the Goblinblood Wars.		Avistan
Frost goblins	goblin	The frost goblins of Irrisen’s eternal winter are unusual among their kind for their propensity to grow blue fur on their bodies.		Irrisen
Monkey goblins	goblin	The monkey goblins of Mediogalti Island are known for their prehensile tails and arboreal habitats.		Mediogalti Island
Halfling		Many halflings have lived in the shadow of other societies for as long as they can remember, living in much the same way as their neighboring cultures and adding their own unique variations over time or as necessity demands. However, numerous distinct halfling cultures exist outside of the context of other peoples and nations.		Golarion
Halflings of Cheliax	halfling	The oppressed halflings of Cheliax who have been forced into slavery.		Old Cheliax
Song’o halflings	halfling	The Song’o halflings of the Mwangi Expanse, who hid from all other cultures to avoid a fate of slavery.		Mwangi Expanse
Local halflings	halfling	The Jaric, Mihrini, Othoban, and Uhlam halflings, simply formed their own traditions without the influence of humans and other creatures.		Golarion