corpus
Abadar (LN) The Master of the First Vault holds sway over cities, the law, merchants, and wealth. Abadar seeks to bring civilization to the wild places of the world, encourages adherence to law, and promotes commerce and trade within civilization. He also encourages cooperation among the various ancestries. Edicts bring civilization to the frontiers, earn wealth through hard work and trade, follow the rule of law Anathema engage in banditry or piracy, steal, undermine a law-abiding court Follower Alignments LG, LN, LE Devotee Benefits Divine Font harm or heal Divine Skill Society Favored Weapon crossbow Domains cities, earth, travel, wealth Cleric Spells 1st: illusory object, 4th: creation, 7th: magnificent mansion
Asmodeus (LE) The Prince of Darkness reigns over contracts, pride, slavery, and tyranny, and he delights in tempting mortals to the path of evil. He promotes strict hierarchies where everyone knows their place, and he takes advantage of order for his own selfish benefit. Edicts negotiate contracts to your best advantage, rule tyrannically and torture weaker beings, show subservience to your betters Anathema break a contract, free a slave, insult Asmodeus by showing mercy to your enemies Follower Alignments LE Devotee Benefits Divine Font harm Divine Skill Deception Favored Weapon mace Domains confidence, fire, trickery, tyranny Cleric Spells 1st: charm, 4th: suggestion, 6th: mislead
Calistria (CN) The mischievous goddess known as the Savored Sting extols the virtues of lust, revenge, and trickery. Though Calistria is most widely worshipped by elves, members of many other ancestries follow her as well. Edicts pursue your personal freedom, seek hedonistic thrills, take revenge Anathema become too consumed by love or a need for revenge, let a slight go unanswered Follower Alignments CG, CN, CE Devotee Benefits Divine Font harm or heal Divine Skill Deception Favored Weapon whip Domains pain, passion, secrecy, trickery Cleric Spells 1st: charm, 3rd: enthrall, 6th: mislead
Cayden Cailean (CG) The Drunken Hero ascended from mortal life on a drunken dare, becoming the god of ale, freedom, and wine. Cayden promotes freedom and encourages others to find their own path in life. He fights for just causes and delights in the best indulgences. Edicts drink, free slaves and aid the oppressed, seek glory and adventure Anathema waste alcohol, be mean or standoffish when drunk, own a slave Follower Alignments NG, CG, CN Devotee Benefits Divine Font heal Divine Skill Athletics Favored Weapon rapier Domains cities, freedom, indulgence, might Cleric Spells 1st: fleet step, 2nd: touch of idiocy, 5th: hallucination
Desna (CG) The kindly Song of the Spheres presides over dreams, luck, stars, and travelers. An ancient goddess, Desna delights in freedom and mystery, and she encourages her followers to do the same. Edicts aid fellow travelers, explore new places, express yourself through art and song, find what life has to offer Anathema cause fear or despair, cast nightmare or use similar magic to corrupt dreams, engage in bigoted behavior Follower Alignments NG, CG, CN Devotee Benefits Divine Font heal Divine Skill Acrobatics Favored Weapon starknife Domains dreams, luck, moon, travel Cleric Spells 1st: sleep, 4th: fly, 5th: dreaming potential
Erastil (LG) Old Deadeye is god of family, farming, hunting, and trade. Long ago he was a horned god of the hunt, but his worship evolved to focus on rural communities. Edicts care for your home and family, fulfill your duties, keep the peace, protect the community Anathema abandon your home in its time of need, choose yourself over your community, tarnish your reputation, tell lies Follower Alignments LG, NG, LN Devotee Benefits Divine Font heal Divine Skill Survival Favored Weapon longbow Domains earth, family, nature, wealth Cleric Spells 1st: true strike, 3rd: wall of thorns, 5th: tree stride
Gorum (CN) Soldiers call out prayers to Our Lord in Iron, god of battle, strength, and weapons. Gorum emphasizes strength and power, encouraging his followers to seek out war and combat as the ultimate way to worship him. Edicts attain victory in fair combat, push your limits, wear armor in combat Anathema kill prisoners or surrendering foes, prevent conflict through negotiation, win a battle through underhanded tactics or indirect magic Follower Alignments CN, CE Devotee Benefits Divine Font harm or heal Divine Skill Athletics Favored Weapon greatsword Domains confidence, destruction, might, zeal Cleric Spells 1st: true strike, 2nd: enlarge, 4th: weapon storm
Gozreh (N) A deity of two aspects, known as the Wind and the Waves, Gozreh rules over nature, the sea, and weather. Gozreh is popular with druids and those who seek to preserve the wilds. Edicts cherish, protect, and respect nature in all its forms Anathema bring civilization to intrude on the wild, create undead, despoil areas of natural beauty Follower Alignments NG, LN, N, CN, NE Devotee Benefits Divine Font heal Divine Skill Survival Favored Weapon trident Domains air, nature, travel, water Cleric Spells 1st: gust of wind, 3rd: lightning bolt, 5th: control water
Iomedae (LG) Iomedae is goddess of honor, justice, rulership, and valor, and she is called the Inheritor because she inherited her mantle when the god of humanity perished. Prior to her ascension, Iomedae walked the planet as a mortal. Many paladins follow her faith. Edicts be temperate, fight for justice and honor, hold valor in your heart Anathema abandon a companion in need, dishonor yourself, refuse a challenge from an equal Follower Alignments LG, NG Devotee Benefits Divine Font heal Divine Skill Intimidation Favored Weapon longsword Domains confidence, might, truth, zeal Cleric Spells 1st: true strike, 2nd: enlarge, 4th: fire shield
Irori (LN) When the Master of Masters attained true enlightenment, he became a god of history, knowledge, and self-perfection. Irori promotes discipline and teaches that one who can master themself finds the greatest benefits the world can provide. Edicts be humble; help others perfect themselves; hone your body, mind, and spirit to a more perfect state; practice discipline Anathema become addicted to a substance, destroy an important historical text, repeatedly fail to maintain self-control Follower Alignments LG, LN, LE Devotee Benefits Divine Font harm or heal Divine Skill Athletics Favored Weapon fist Domains knowledge, might, perfection, truth Cleric Spells 1st: jump, 3rd: haste, 4th: stoneskin
Lamashtu (CE) The Mother of Monsters is goddess of aberrance, monsters, and nightmares. She seeks to corrupt mortals and populate the world with her twisted and monstrous brood. Edicts bring power to outcasts and the downtrodden, indoctrinate children in Lamashtu’s teachings, make the beautiful monstrous, reveal the corruption and flaws in all things Anathema attempt to treat a mental illness or deformity, provide succor to Lamashtu’s enemies Follower Alignments CE Devotee Benefits Divine Font harm or heal Divine Skill Survival Favored Weapon falchion Domains family, might, nightmares, trickery Cleric Spells 1st: magic fang, 2nd: animal form, 4th: nightmare
Nethys (N) The All-Seeing Eye, god of magic, has a dualistic nature of destruction and preservation; his ability to witness all things has shattered his mind. Edicts seek out magical power and use it Anathema pursue mundane paths over magical ones Follower Alignments NG, LN, N, CN, NE Devotee Benefits Divine Font harm or heal Divine Skill Arcana Favored Weapon staff Domains destruction, knowledge, magic, protection Cleric Spells 1st: magic missile, 2nd: magic mouth, 3rd: levitate, 4th: blink, 5th: prying eye, 6th: wall of force, 7th: warp mind, 8th: maze, 9th: disjunction
Norgorber (NE) The god of greed, murder, poison, and secrets has four aspects: Blackfingers, ally of alchemists and poisoners; the murderous Father Skinsaw; the thieving Gray Master; and the secretive Reaper of Reputation. Followers plus N if following the Reaper of Reputation. Edicts keep your true identity secret, sacrifice anyone necessary, take every advantage in a fight, work from the shadows Anathema allow your true identity to be connected to your dark dealings, share a secret freely, show mercy. Follower Alignments LE, NE, CE Devotee Benefits Divine Font harm Divine Skill Stealth Favored Weapon shortsword Domains death, secrecy, trickery, wealth Cleric Spells 1st: illusory disguise, 2nd: invisibility, 4th: phantasmal killer
Pharasma (N) Ancient and powerful beyond even most other gods, the Lady of Graves presides over birth, death, fate, and prophecy. From her throne in the Boneyard, she judges the souls of all who perish, and she ensures that the natural cycle of birth and death—the River of Souls—is not disrupted. Edicts strive to understand ancient prophecies, destroy undead, lay bodies to rest Anathema create undead, desecrate a corpse, rob a tomb Follower Alignments NG, LN, N Devotee Benefits Divine Font heal Divine Skill Medicine Favored Weapon dagger Domains death, fate, healing, knowledge Cleric Spells 1st: mindlink, 3rd: ghostly weapon, 4th: phantasmal killer
Rovagug (CE) The Rough Beast is the god of destruction, disaster, and wrath. He was long ago imprisoned within Golarion’s core at the hands of many other deities working in concert, and seeks to one day break free and wreak havoc upon the world. Edicts destroy all things, free Rovagug from his prison Anathema create something new, let material ties restrain you, torture a victim or otherwise delay its destruction Follower Alignments NE, CE Devotee Benefits Divine Font harm Divine Skill Athletics Favored Weapon greataxe Domains air, destruction, earth, zeal Cleric Spells 1st: burning hands, 2nd: enlarge, 6th: disintegrate
Sarenrae (NG) The Dawnflower is goddess of healing, honesty, redemption, and the sun. Once a powerful angel and empyreal lord, Sarenrae led the charge to imprison Rovagug. She seeks to redeem evil where possible, or else destroy it swiftly. Edicts destroy the Spawn of Rovagug, protect allies, provide aid to the sick and wounded, seek and allow redemption Anathema create undead, lie, deny a repentant creature an opportunity for redemption, fail to strike down evil Follower Alignments LG, NG, CG Devotee Benefits Divine Font heal Divine Skill Medicine Favored Weapon scimitar Domains fire, healing, sun, truth Cleric Spells 1st: burning hands, 3rd: fireball, 4th: wall of fire
Shelyn (NG) The Eternal Rose is the goddess of art, beauty, love, and music. She seeks to one day redeem her corrupted brother, Zon-Kuthon. Shelyn promotes peace and love, and she encourages her followers to create beauty in a sometimes dark world. Edicts be peaceful, choose and perfect an art, lead by example, see the beauty in all things Anathema destroy art or allow it to be destroyed, unless saving a life or pursuing greater art; refuse to accept surrender Follower Alignments LG, NG, CG Devotee Benefits Divine Font heal Divine Skill select Crafting or Performance Favored Weapon glaive Domains creation, family, passion, protection Cleric Spells 1st: color spray, 3rd: enthrall, 4th: creation
Torag (LG) The dwarven deity called the Father of Creation is god of the forge, protection, and strategy. Though most widely worshipped by dwarves, those who treasure crafting and creation also follow Torag. Edicts be honorable and forthright, keep your word, respect the forge, serve your people Anathema tell lies or cheat someone, intentionally create inferior works, show mercy to the enemies of your people Follower Alignments LG, LN Devotee Benefits Divine Font heal Divine Skill Crafting Favored Weapon warhammer Domains creation, earth, family, protection Cleric Spells 1st: mindlink, 3rd: earthbind, 4th: creation
Urgathoa (NE) The amoral Pallid Princess oversees disease, gluttony, and undeath. Edicts become undead upon death, create or protect the undead, sate your appetites Anathema deny your appetites, destroy undead, sacrifice your life Follower Alignments LE, NE, CE Devotee Benefits Divine Font harm Divine Skill Intimidation Favored Weapon scythe Domains indulgence, magic, might, undeath Cleric Spells 1st: goblin pox, 2nd: false life, 7th: mask of terror
Zon-Kuthon (LE) The Midnight Lord is god of darkness, envy, loss, and pain. Once a god of art, beauty, and music, like Shelyn, he returned from a sojourn in the dark spaces between the planes horribly changed. Edicts bring pain to the world, mutilate your body Anathema create permanent or long-lasting sources of light, provide comfort to those who suffer Follower Alignments LN, LE, NE Devotee Benefits Divine Font harm Divine Skill Intimidation Favored Weapon spiked chain Domains ambition, darkness, destruction, pain Cleric Spells 1st: phantom pain, 3rd: wall of thorns, 5th: shadow walk