name	comment	location	after	during	participants
Earthfall	(–5293 AR) Earthfall, as this extinction-level event came to be known, saw the world pummeled by a shower of falling stars that sank continents, hollowed out new seas, and destroyed civilizations.	Golarion			
The Age of Darkness		Golarion	Earthfall		
The Age of Destiny	The Age of Destiny saw the rise of many new human empires throughout the world. Humanity built wondrous structures, and its schools relearned magic that had been thought lost.	Golarion	the Age of Darkness		
Discovery of the Starstone	Aroden had long since cultivated a following of loyal subjects who regarded him with awe, for immortality was but one of the wonders he’d achieved. Greatest among these was his discovery of a shard of potent magic known today as the Starstone, a fragment from the stars that fell during Earthfall, which had lodged at the bottom of the Inner Sea.	Inner Sea		the Age of Destiny	Aroden
Absalom Reckoning	Aroden emerged from this test a living god, and his first divine act was to raise the Starstone and the mass of land on which it had lain from the bottom of the sea to form the Isle of Kortos where he then established the city of Absalom.	Isle of Kortos, Absalom	Discovery of the Starstone	The Age of Destiny	Aroden
Death of Aroden	(4606 AR)	Golarion	Absalom Reckoning	The Age of Destiny	Aroden
Age of Lost Omens	Golarion was wracked by storms, war, and supernatural devastation as the god’s death marked the beginning of a new age—a time of uncertainty, but also a time of opportunity.	Golarion	The Age of Destiny
Quest for Sky	It wasn’t until after Earthfall that the dwarves undertook the legendary Quest for Sky, during which the majority of dwarves made a pilgrimage to relocate to the surface of Golarion. In doing so, they not only drove the orcs to the surface before them, but also established several immense Sky Citadels at each location where they emerged from the realm below.	Darklands, Golarion	Earthfall		dwarf
Arriving of gnomes on Golarion	The first gnomes arrived on Golarion at some point after Earthfall from the otherworldly dimension known as the First World, fleeing a terror whose nature few can recall.	First World, Golarion	Earthfall		gnome