tradition	level	corpus
arcane	0	Acid Splash H (evo): Damage creatures with acid. Chill Touch H (nec): Your touch hurts the living or disorients undead. Dancing Lights (evo): Create four floating lights you can move. Daze H (enc): Damage a creature’s mind and possibly stun it. Detect Magic H (div): Sense whether magic is nearby. Electric Arc H (evo): Zap one or two creatures with lightning. Ghost Sound H (ill): Make false sounds. Light H (evo): Make an object glow. Mage Hand H (evo): Command a floating hand to move an object. Message H (ill): Speak a message to a distant creature, who can reply. Prestidigitation (evo): Perform a minor magical trick. Produce Flame H (evo): Kindle small flames to attack close or at range. Ray of Frost H (evo): Damage a creature with cold. Read Aura H (div): Detect if an object is magical, and determine the school of its magic. Shield H (abj): A shield of magical force blocks attacks and magic missiles. Sigil H (tra): Leave a magical mark. Tanglefoot H (con): Conjure a vine to entangle a creature. Telekinetic Projectile H (evo): Fling an object at a creature.
arcane	1	Air Bubble (con): React to create air for a creature to breathe. Alarm H (abj): Be alerted if a creature enters a warded area. Ant Haul (tra): Target can carry more. Burning Hands H (evo): A small cone of flame rushes from your hands. Charm H (enc): A creature becomes more friendly to you. Color Spray (ill): Swirling colors dazzle or stun creatures. Command H (enc): Bid a creature to approach, run, release something, lie prone, or stand up. Create Water (con): Conjure 2 gallons of water. Fear H (enc): Frighten a creature, possibly making it flee. Feather Fall (abj): React to slow a creature’s fall. Fleet Step (tra): Make your Speed much faster. Floating Disk (con): A disk of energy follows you, carrying objects. Goblin Pox (nec): Infect a creature with goblin pox. Grease (con): Coat a surface or object in slippery grease. Grim Tendrils H (nec): Creatures in a line take negative damage and bleed. Gust of Wind (evo): Wind blows out fires and knocks back objects and creatures. Hydraulic Push H (evo): Damage and push a creature with a blast of water. Illusory Disguise H (ill): Make yourself look like a different creature. Illusory Object H (ill): Form a convincing illusion of an object. Item Facade H (ill): Disguise an item to look perfect or shoddy. Jump H (tra): Make an impressive leap. Lock H (abj): Make a lock hard to open. Longstrider H (tra): Increase your Speed for an hour. Mage Armor H (abj): Ward yourself with magical armor. Magic Aura U, H (ill): Change how an item’s magic appears to detecting spells. Magic Missile H (evo): Pelt creatures with unerring bolts of magical force. Magic Weapon (tra): Make a weapon temporarily magical. Mending H (tra): Repair one non-magical item. Negate Aroma H (abj): Suppress a creature’s scent. Pest Form H (tra): Turn into a nonthreatening animal. Ray of Enfeeblement (nec): Sap a creature’s strength. Shocking Grasp H (evo): Zap a creature with electricity. Sleep H (enc): Cause creatures in a small area to fall asleep. Spider Sting (nec): Damage a creature and afflict it with spider venom. Summon Animal H (con): Conjure an animal to fight on your behalf. Summon Construct H (con): Conjure a construct to fight on your behalf. True Strike (div): Make your next attack especially accurate. Unseen Servant (con): Create an invisible creature to help you. Ventriloquism H (ill): Throw your voice.
arcane	2	Acid Arrow H (evo): Magical arrow deals acid damage persistently.Blur (ill): Cause a target’s form to become blurry and hard to hit. Comprehend Language H (div): A creature understands one language. Continual Flame H (evo): A magical flame burns indefinitely. Create Food H (con): Conjure food that can feed multiple creatures. Darkness H (evo): Suppress all light in an area. Darkvision H (div): See in the dark. Deafness (nec): Make a creature deaf. Dispel Magic (abj): End a spell or suppress an item’s magic. Endure Elements H (abj): Protect a creature from severe cold or heat. Enlarge H (tra): A creature grows in size. False Life H (nec): Gain temporary HP. Flaming Sphere H (evo): A ball of fire rolls about at your command. Gentle Repose H (nec): A corpse doesn’t decay and can’t become undead. Glitterdust (evo): Sparkling dust breaks invisibility and impedes vision. Hideous Laughter (enc): Fits of laughter make a creature unable to take all its actions. Humanoid Form H (tra): Take the shape of a humanoid. Illusory Creature H (ill): Form a convincing illusion of a creature. Invisibility H (ill): A creature can’t be seen until it attacks. Knock (tra): Make a door, lock, or container easier to open, and possibly open it immediately. Magic Mouth (ill): Make an illusory mouth appear to speak a message. Mirror Image (ill): Illusory duplicates of you cause attacks to miss. Misdirection (ill): Cause one creature’s auras to appear to be another’s. Obscuring Mist (con): Conceal creatures in a cloud of mist. Phantom Steed H (con): Conjure a magical horse. Resist Energy H (abj): Protect a creature from one type of energy damage. See Invisibility H (div): See invisible creatures and objects. Shrink H (tra): Reduce a willing creature to Tiny size. Spectral Hand (nec): Semicorporeal hand touches creatures to target them with your spells. Spider Climb H (tra): Give a creature a climb Speed. Summon Elemental H (con): Conjure an elemental to fight on your behalf. Telekinetic Maneuver (evo): Disarm, Shove, or Trip a creature telekinetically. Touch of Idiocy (enc): Dull a target’s mind with a touch. Water Breathing H (tra): Allow creatures to breathe underwater.Water Walk H (tra): Buoy a creature so it can walk on water. Web H (con): Form a web that keeps creatures from moving.
arcane	3	Bind Undead (nec): Take control of a mindless undead. Blindness (nec): Strike a target blind. Clairaudience (div): Hear through an invisible magical sensor. Dream Message H (enc): Send a message that arrives in a dream. Earthbind (tra): Bring a flying creature to the ground. Enthrall (enc): Your speech makes creatures fascinated with you. Feet to Fins H (tra): Turn a creature’s feet into fins, enabling it swim but slowing it on land. Fireball H (evo): An explosion of fire in an area burns creatures. Ghostly Weapon (tra): Make a weapon affect incorporeal creatures. Glyph of Warding (abj): Store a spell in a symbol to make a trap. Haste H (tra): Speed up a creature so it can attack or move more often. Hypnotic Pattern (ill): Shifting colors dazzle and fascinate creatures. Invisibility Sphere H (ill): You and creatures near you become invisible as you explore. Levitate (evo): Float an object or creature a few feet off the ground. Lightning Bolt H (evo): Lightning strikes all creatures in a line. Locate U, H (div): Learn the direction to an object. Meld into Stone (tra): Meld into a block of stone. Mind Reading U (div): Read a creature’s surface thoughts. Nondetection U (abj): Protect a creature or object from detection. Paralyze H (enc): Freeze a creature in place. Secret Page (ill): Alter the appearance of a page. Shrink Item (tra): Reduce an object to the size of a coin. Slow H (tra): Make a creature slower, reducing its actions. Stinking Cloud (con): Form a cloud that sickens creatures. Vampiric Touch H (nec): Deal negative damage and gain temporary HP with a touch. Wall of Wind (evo): Create a wall of gusting winds that hinders movement and ranged attacks.
arcane	4	Aerial Form H (tra): Turn into a flying combatant. Blink H (con): Flit between the planes, vanishing and reappearing.Clairvoyance (div): See through an invisible magical sensor. Confusion H (enc): Befuddle a creature, making it act randomly. Creation H (con): Make a temporary object. Detect Scrying U, H (div): Find out if scrying effects are in the area. Dimension Door H (con): Teleport yourself up to 120 feet. Dimensional Anchor (abj): Keep a creature from teleporting or traveling to other planes. Discern Lies U (div): Expertly detect lies and falsehoods. Fire Shield H (evo): Flames protect you from cold and harm those that touch you. Fly H (tra): Cause the target creature to gain a fly Speed. Freedom of Movement (abj): A creature overcomes hindrances to its movement. Gaseous Form (tra): Turn a willing creature into a flying cloud. Globe of Invulnerability U (abj): Magical sphere counteracts spells that would enter it. Hallucinatory Terrain U, H (ill): A natural environment appears to be another kind of terrain. Nightmare (ill): Plague a creature’s dreams with disturbing nightmares. Outcast’s Curse (enc): Curse a creature to be off-putting and grating. Phantasmal Killer H (ill): Place a fearsome image in a creature’s mind to scare and possibly kill it. Private Sanctum U (abj): Black fog prevents sensing, scrying, and mind‑reading on anyone within. Resilient Sphere (abj): Create a sphere of force that blocks anything that would come through. Rope Trick U (con): Animate a rope that rises to an extradimensional hiding place. Shape Stone (tra): Reshape a cube of stone. Solid Fog (con): Conjure heavy fog that obscures sight and is hard to move through. Spell Immunity (abj): Name a spell to negate its effects on you. Stoneskin H (abj): Harden a creature’s skin into durable stone. Suggestion H (enc): Suggest a course of action a creature must follow. Telepathy H (div): Communicate telepathically with any creatures near you. Veil H (ill): Disguise many creatures as other creatures. Wall of Fire H (evo): Create a blazing wall that burns creatures that pass through.Weapon Storm H (evo): Multiply a weapon you hold and attack many creatures with it.
arcane	5	Banishment H (abj): Send a creature back to its home plane. Black Tentacles (con): Tentacles in an area grab creatures. Chromatic Wall H (abj): A wall of light offers a unique protection based on its color. Cloak of Colors (ill): Bright colors dazzle creatures near the target, and attacks cause blinding flashes of light. Cloudkill H (nec): Poison creatures in a cloud that moves away from you. Cone of Cold H (evo): Bitter cold damages creatures in a cone. Control Water (evo): Raise or lower water in a large area. Crushing Despair H (enc): Make a creature sob uncontrollably. Drop Dead U, H (ill): The target appears to die but actually turns invisible. Elemental Form H (tra): Turn into an elemental. False Vision U (ill): Trick a scrying spell. Hallucination H (ill): A creature believes one thing is another, can’t detect something, or sees something that’s not really there. Illusory Scene H (ill): Create an imaginary scene containing multiple creatures and objects. Mariner’s Curse (nec): Infect a creature with the curse of the rolling sea. Mind Probe U (div): Uncover knowledge and memories in a creature’s mind. Passwall U, H (con): Form an earthen tunnel through a wall. Prying Eye (div): An invisible eye transmits what it sees to you. Sending (div): Send a mental message to a creature anywhere on the planet and get a reply. Shadow Siphon (ill): React to lessen the damage from an enemy’s spell by making it partially illusion. Shadow Walk U (con): Travel rapidly via the Shadow Plane. Subconscious Suggestion H (enc): Plant a mental suggestion that must be followed when a trigger occurs. Summon Dragon H (con): Conjure a dragon to fight on your behalf. Telekinetic Haul (evo): Move a large object. Telepathic Bond U (div): Link minds with willing creatures to communicate telepathically at great distances. Tongues U, H (div): Let a creature understand and speak all languages. Wall of Ice H (evo): Sculpt a foot-thick wall of ice that blocks sight and can chill creatures. Wall of Stone H (con): Shape a wall of stone.
arcane	6	Baleful Polymorph (tra): Transform a creature into a harmless animal. Chain Lightning H (evo): Lightning jumps from creature to creature. Collective Transposition H (con): Teleport up to two creatures to new positions near you. Disintegrate H (evo): Reduce a creature or object to dust. Dominate U, H (enc): A creature must obey your orders. Dragon Form H (tra): Turn into a dragon. Feeblemind (enc): Stupefy a creature permanently. Flesh To Stone (tra): Turn a living creature to a stone statue. Mislead (ill): Turn invisible and create a duplicate of yourself who acts like you. Phantasmal Calamity H (ill): Damage a creature mentally with visions of an apocalypse. Purple Worm Sting (nec): Damage a creature and infect it with purple worm venom. Repulsion (abj): Prevent creatures from approaching you. Scrying U (div): Spy on a creature. Spellwrack (abj): Curse a creature to be harmed when a spell is cast on it and lower the duration of its spells. Teleport U, H (con): Transport you and willing creatures a great distance. True Seeing (div): See through illusions and transmutations. Vampiric Exsanguination H (nec): Draw blood and life force from creatures in a cone. Vibrant Pattern (ill): Make a pattern of lights that dazzles and blinds. Wall of Force H (evo): Create an invisible and durable wall of magical force.
arcane	7	Contingency H (abj): Set up a spell to trigger later under your choice of circumstances. Dimensional Lock U (abj): Prevent teleportation and planar travel. Duplicate Foe H (con): Create a temporary duplicate of an enemy that fights for you. Eclipse Burst H (nec): A globe of darkness deals cold damage, hurts the living, and overcomes light. Energy Aegis H (abj): A creature gains resistance to acid, cold, electricity, fire, force, and sonic. Fiery Body H (tra): Turn your body into living flame. Magnificent Mansion U (con): Conjure a secure dwelling in a demiplane. Mask of Terror H (ill): A creature’s fearsome illusory appearance frightens observers.Plane Shift U (con): Transport creatures to another plane of existence. Power Word Blind U, H (enc): Utter a word that blinds a creature. Prismatic Spray (evo): Shoot rainbow beams that have various effects on creatures in a cone. Project Image H (ill): Make an illusion of yourself you can cast spells through. Reverse Gravity U (evo): Flip the gravitational pull in an area. Spell Turning U (abj): Reflect spells back at their caster. True Target (div): Make multiple attacks against a creature especially accurate. Warp Mind (enc): Confuse a creature, possibly permanently.
arcane	8	Antimagic Field R (abj): Magic doesn’t function in an area around you. Disappearance (ill): Make a creature invisible, silent, and undetectable by any and all senses. Discern Location U (div): Discover a target’s exact location within unlimited range. Dream Council (ill): Communicate through a shared dream. Earthquake H (evo): Shake the ground with a devastating earthquake. Horrid Wilting H (nec): Pull moisture from creatures, damaging them. Maze (con): Trap a creature in an extradimensional maze. Mind Blank U (abj): Protect a creature from mental magic and some divinations. Monstrosity Form H (tra): Turn into a powerful monster. Polar Ray H (evo): Bitter cold damages and drains a creature. Power Word Stun U, H (enc): Utter a word that stuns a creature. Prismatic Wall (abj): Form a protective wall with seven chromatic layers. Scintillating Pattern (ill): Cause an array of color that dazzles, confuses, and stuns. Uncontrollable Dance (enc): Overcome a target with an all-consuming urge to dance. Unrelenting Observation (div): You and other creatures use scrying to track a subject exactly.
arcane	9	Disjunction U (abj): Deactivate or destroy a magic item. Foresight (div): Sense when a creature is in danger and react to protect it with good fortune. Implosion H (evo): Make a creature collapse in on itself. Massacre H (nec): Instantly kill multiple creatures.Meteor Swarm H (evo): Call down four blazing meteors that explode. Power Word Kill U, H (enc): Utter a word that slays a creature. Prismatic Sphere (abj): Form a protective sphere composed of seven chromatic layers. Resplendent Mansion (con): Conjure a mansion that lasts for a day. Shapechange (tra): Transform into a form of your choice repeatedly. Telepathic Demand (enc): Send a mental message that impels a creature toward a course of action. Weird (ill): Frighten, deal mental damage, and possibly kill large numbers of creatures.
arcane	10	Cataclysm (evo): Call an instant, damaging cataclysm. Gate U (con): Tear open a portal to another plane. Remake U (con): Recreate a destroyed object. Time Stop (tra): Briefly stop time for everything but you. Wish (div): Make a wish to duplicate arcane spells.
divine	0	Chill Touch H (nec): Your touch hurts the living or disorients undead. Daze H (enc): Damage a creature’s mind and possibly stun it. Detect Magic H (div): Sense whether magic is nearby. Disrupt Undead H (nec): Damage undead with positive energy. Divine Lance H (evo): Throw divine energy that damages based on your deity’s alignment. Forbidding Ward H (abj): Protect an ally against one specific enemy. Guidance (div): Divine guidance improves one roll. Know Direction H (div): Find true north. Light H (evo): Make an object glow. Message H (ill): Speak a message to a distant creature, who can reply. Prestidigitation (evo): Perform a minor magical trick. Read Aura H (div): Detect if an object is magical, and determine the school of its magic. Shield H (abj): A shield of magical force blocks attacks and magic missiles. Sigil H (tra): Leave a magical mark. Stabilize (nec): Stabilize a dying creature.
divine	1	Air Bubble (con): React to create air for a creature to breathe. Alarm H (abj): Be alerted if a creature enters a warded area.Bane (enc): Weaken enemies’ attacks in an aura around you. Bless (enc): Strengthen allies’ attacks in an aura around you. Command H (enc): Bid a creature to approach, run, release something, lie prone, or stand up. Create Water (con): Conjure 2 gallons of water. Detect Alignment U, H (div): See auras of a chosen alignment. Detect Poison U, H (div): Determine whether an object or creature is poisonous or venomous. Disrupting Weapons H (nec): Weapons deal positive damage to undead. Fear H (enc): Frighten a creature, possibly making it flee. Harm H (nec): Negative energy harms the living or heals the undead, either a single creature or all in a burst. Heal H (nec): Positive energy heals the living or harms the undead, either a single creature or all in a burst. Lock H (abj): Make a lock hard to open. Magic Weapon (tra): Make a weapon temporarily magical. Mending H (tra): Repair one non-magical item. Protection U (abj): Shield a creature against those of a chosen alignment. Purify Food And Drink (nec): Make beverages and meals safe. Ray of Enfeeblement (nec): Sap a creature’s strength. Sanctuary (abj): Protect a creature from being attacked. Spirit Link H (nec): Continually transfer your health to someone else. Ventriloquism H (ill): Throw your voice.
divine	2	Augury (div): Predict whether a course of action brings good fortune. Calm Emotions (enc): Suppress strong emotions and hostility. Comprehend Language H (div): A creature understands one language. Continual Flame H (evo): A magical flame burns indefinitely. Create Food H (con): Conjure food that can feed multiple creatures. Darkness H (evo): Suppress all light in an area. Darkvision H (div): See in the dark. Deafness (nec): Make a creature deaf. Death Knell (nec): Finish off a creature who’s near death. Dispel Magic (abj): End a spell or suppress an item’s magic. Endure Elements H (abj): Protect a creature from severe cold or heat. Enhance Victuals H (tra): Improve food or drink and remove poisons. Faerie Fire (evo): Colorful light prevents creatures from being concealed or invisible.Gentle Repose H (nec): A corpse doesn’t decay and can’t become undead. Ghoulish Cravings (nec): Infect a creature with ghoul fever. Remove Fear H (enc): Free a creature from its fright. Remove Paralysis H (nec): Free a creature from paralysis. Resist Energy H (abj): Protect a creature from one type of energy damage. Restoration H (nec): Reduce a condition or lessen a toxin. Restore Senses H (nec): Remove a blinding or deafening effect. See Invisibility H (div): See invisible creatures and objects. Shield Other (nec): Absorb half the damage an ally would take. Silence H (ill): Mute all sound from a creature. Sound Burst H (evo): Damage and deafen creatures with a powerful din. Spiritual Weapon H (evo): Materialize a deific weapon of force that appears and attacks repeatedly. Status H (div): Keep track of a willing creature’s location and well-being. Undetectable Alignment U (abj): Make a creature or object appear neutral to alignment detection. Water Breathing H (tra): Allow creatures to breathe underwater. Water Walk H (tra): Buoy a creature so it can walk on water.
divine	3	Bind Undead (nec): Take control of a mindless undead. Blindness (nec): Strike a target blind. Chilling Darkness H (evo): Ray of evil darkness deals cold damage, counteracts light, and harms celestials. Circle of Protection U, H (abj): A creature emits an aura that protects those within against an alignment. Crisis of Faith H (enc): Cause mental damage and possibly make a worshipper unable to cast spells. Dream Message H (enc): Send a message that arrives in a dream. Glyph of Warding (abj): Store a spell in a symbol to make a trap. Heroism H (enc): Stoke a creature’s inner heroism to make it more competent. Locate U, H (div): Learn the direction to an object. Neutralize Poison (nec): Cure a poison afflicting a creature. Remove Disease (nec): Cure a disease afflicting a creature. Sanctified Ground (abj): Create a 24-hour area of protection against aberrations, celestials, dragons, fiends, or undead. Searing Light H (evo): A ray of burning light deals extra damage to undead and counteracts darkness. Vampiric Touch H (nec): Deal negative damage and gain temporary HP with a touch. Wanderer’s Guide (div): Find an ideal route to a location. Zone of Truth U (enc): Compel creatures to tell the truth.
divine	4	Air Walk (tra): Walk on air as though it were solid ground. Anathematic Reprisal H (enc): Cause mental pain to one who commits anathema against your deity. Dimensional Anchor (abj): Keep a creature from teleporting or traveling to other planes. Discern Lies U (div): Expertly detect lies and falsehoods. Divine Wrath H (evo): Damage and hinder creatures of alignments opposed by your deity. Freedom of Movement (abj): A creature overcomes hindrances to its movement. Globe of Invulnerability U (abj): Magical sphere counteracts spells that would enter it. Holy Cascade H (evo): Turn a vial of holy water into an explosion of blessed water. Outcast’s Curse (enc): Curse a creature to be off-putting and grating. Read Omens U (div): Get a piece of advice about an upcoming event. Remove Curse (nec): Counteract a curse afflicting a creature. Spell Immunity (abj): Name a spell to negate its effects on you. Talking Corpse U (nec): Have a corpse answer three questions. Vital Beacon H (nec): Radiate vitality that heals creatures that touch you.
divine	5	Abyssal Plague (nec): Inflict a draining curse. Banishment H (abj): Send a creature back to its home plane. Breath of Life (nec): React to revive a creature at the moment of its death. Death Ward (abj): Protect a creature against negative energy. Drop Dead U, H (ill): The target appears to die but actually turns invisible. Flame Strike H (evo): Call divine fire from the sky. Prying Eye (div): An invisible eye transmits what it sees to you. Sending (div): Send a mental message to a creature anywhere on the planet and get a reply. Shadow Blast H (evo): Shape a cone of shadow to deal damage of a type you choose. Spiritual Guardian H (abj): Create a magical guardian to attack at your command and take damage for your allies. Summon Celestial H (con): Conjure a celestial to fight on your behalf. Summon Fiend H (con): Conjure a fiend to fight on your behalf. Tongues U, H (div): Let a creature understand and speak all languages.
divine	6	Blade Barrier H (evo): Form a wall of swords made of force. Field of Life H (nec): Create a positive energy field that heals those within. Raise Dead U, H (nec): Return a dead creature to life. Repulsion (abj): Prevent creatures from approaching you. Righteous Might H (tra): Turn into a battle form with divine armaments. Spellwrack (abj): Curse a creature to be harmed when a spell is cast on it and lower the duration of its spells. Spirit Blast H (nec): Damage a creature’s spiritual essence. Stone Tell U (div): Speak to spirits within natural stone. Stone to Flesh (tra): Turn a creature turned to stone back to flesh. True Seeing (div): See through illusions and transmutations. Vampiric Exsanguination H (nec): Draw blood and life force from creatures in a cone. Zealous Conviction H (enc): Instill unshakable conviction and zeal in willing creatures.
divine	7	Dimensional Lock U (abj): Prevent teleportation and planar travel. Divine Decree H (evo): Creatures of alignments opposed by your deity are damaged, enfeebled, paralyzed, or banished. Divine Vessel H (tra): Take on aspects of a servitor of your deity. Eclipse Burst H (nec): A globe of darkness deals cold damage, hurts the living, and overcomes light. Energy Aegis H (abj): A creature gains resistance to acid, cold, electricity, fire, force, and sonic. Ethereal Jaunt U, H (con): Use the Ethereal Plane to move through objects and into the air. Finger of Death H (nec): Point at a creature to deal negative damage and possibly kill it instantly. Plane Shift U (con): Transport creatures to another plane of existence. Regenerate H (nec): Cause a creature to heal over time, regrow organs, and reattach body parts. Sunburst H (evo): A globe of sunlight deals fire damage, hurts undead, and overcomes darkness.
divine	8	Antimagic Field R (abj): Magic doesn’t function in an area around you. Discern Location U (div): Discover a target’s exact location within unlimited range. Divine Aura (abj): Allies in an aura have better defenses and are protected against one alignment. Divine Inspiration (enc): Spiritual energy recovers a creature’s expended spell. Moment of Renewal (nec): Give a day’s recovery in an instant. Spiritual Epidemic (nec): Weaken a target with a communicable curse.
divine	9	Bind Soul U (nec): Imprison a dead creature’s soul. Crusade U, H (enc): Creatures become dedicated to a cause of your choice. Foresight (div): Sense when a creature is in danger and react to protect it with good fortune. Massacre H (nec): Instantly kill multiple creatures. Overwhelming Presence (enc): Take on the majesty of a god. Telepathic Demand (enc): Send a mental message that impels a creature toward a course of action. Wail of the Banshee (nec): Scream, dealing damage and draining creatures. Weapon of Judgment H (evo): Form a weapon to enforce war or peace.
divine	10	Avatar (tra): Transform into a battle form determined by your deity. Gate U (con): Tear open a portal to another plane. Miracle (div): Ask for a blessing to duplicate divine spells. Remake U (con): Recreate a destroyed object. Revival (nec): Heal creatures in an area and return the dead to life temporarily.
occult	0	Chill Touch H (nec): Your touch hurts the living or disorients undead. Dancing Lights (evo): Create four floating lights you can move. Daze H (enc): Damage a creature’s mind and possibly stun it. Detect Magic H (div): Sense whether magic is nearby. Forbidding Ward H (abj): Protect an ally against one specific enemy. Ghost Sound H (ill): Make false sounds. Guidance (div): Divine guidance improves one roll. Know Direction H (div): Find true north. Light H (evo): Make an object glow. Mage Hand H (evo): Command a floating hand to move an object. Message H (ill): Speak a message to a distant creature, who can reply. Prestidigitation (evo): Perform a minor magical trick. Read Aura H (div): Detect if an object is magical, and determine the school of its magic. Shield H (abj): A shield of magical force blocks attacks and magic missiles. Sigil H (tra): Leave a magical mark. Telekinetic Projectile H (evo): Fling an object at a creature.
occult	1	Alarm H (abj): Be alerted if a creature enters a warded area. Bane (enc): Weaken enemies’ attacks in an aura around you. Bless (enc): Strengthen allies’ attacks in an aura around you. Charm H (enc): A creature becomes more friendly to you. Color Spray (ill): Swirling colors dazzle or stun creatures. Command H (enc): Bid a creature to approach, run, release something, lie prone, or stand up. Detect Alignment U, H (div): See auras of a chosen alignment. Fear H (enc): Frighten a creature, possibly making it flee. Floating Disk (con): A disk of energy follows you, carrying objects. Grim Tendrils H (nec): Creatures in a line take negative damage and bleed. Illusory Disguise H (ill): Make yourself look like a different creature. Illusory Object H (ill): Form a convincing illusion of an object. Item Facade H (ill): Disguise an item to look perfect or shoddy. Lock H (abj): Make a lock hard to open. Mage Armor H (abj): Ward yourself with magical armor. Magic Aura U, H (ill): Change how an item’s magic appears to detecting spells. Magic Missile H (evo): Pelt creatures with unerring bolts of magical force. Magic Weapon (tra): Make a weapon temporarily magical. Mending H (tra): Repair one non-magical item. Mindlink (div): Mentally impart 10 minutes’ worth of information in an instant. Phantom Pain H (ill): Cause a creature ongoing pain that sickens it. Protection U (abj): Shield a creature against those of a chosen alignment. Ray of Enfeeblement (nec): Sap a creature’s strength. Sanctuary (abj): Protect a creature from being attacked. Sleep H (enc): Cause creatures in a small area to fall asleep. Soothe H (nec): Heal the target and bolster them against mental attacks. Spirit Link H (nec): Continually transfer your health to someone else. Summon Fey H (con): Conjure a fey to fight on your behalf. True Strike (div): Make your next attack especially accurate. Unseen Servant (con): Create an invisible creature to help you. Ventriloquism H (ill): Throw your voice.
occult	2	Augury (div): Predict whether a course of action brings good fortune. Blur (ill): Cause a target’s form to become blurry and hard to hit. Calm Emotions (enc): Suppress strong emotions and hostility. Comprehend Language H (div): A creature understands one language. Continual Flame H (evo): A magical flame burns indefinitely. Darkness H (evo): Suppress all light in an area. Darkvision H (div): See in the dark. Deafness (nec): Make a creature deaf. Death Knell (nec): Finish off a creature who’s near death. Dispel Magic (abj): End a spell or suppress an item’s magic. Faerie Fire (evo): Colorful light prevents creatures from being concealed or invisible. False Life H (nec): Gain temporary HP. Gentle Repose H (nec): A corpse doesn’t decay and can’t become undead. Ghoulish Cravings (nec): Infect a creature with ghoul fever. Hideous Laughter (enc): Fits of laughter make a creature unable to take all its actions. Humanoid Form H (tra): Take the shape of a humanoid. Illusory Creature H (ill): Form a convincing illusion of a creature. Invisibility H (ill): A creature can’t be seen until it attacks. Knock (tra): Make a door, lock, or container easier to open, and possibly open it immediately. Magic Mouth (ill): Make an illusory mouth appear to speak a message. Mirror Image (ill): Illusory duplicates of you cause attacks to miss. Misdirection (ill): Cause one creature’s auras to appear to be another’s. Paranoia H (ill): Make a creature believe everyone is a threat. Phantom Steed H (con): Conjure a magical horse. Remove Fear H (enc): Free a creature from its fright. Remove Paralysis H (nec): Free a creature from paralysis. Resist Energy H (abj): Protect a creature from one type of energy damage. Restoration H (nec): Reduce a condition or lessen a toxin. Restore Senses H (nec): Remove a blinding or deafening effect. See Invisibility H (div): See invisible creatures and objects. Shatter H (evo): Shatter an object with a high-frequency sonic attack. Silence H (ill): Mute all sound from a creature. Sound Burst H (evo): Damage and deafen creatures with a powerful din. Spectral Hand (nec): Create a semicorporeal hand that touches creatures to target them with your spells. Spiritual Weapon H (evo): Materialize a deific weapon of force that appears and attacks repeatedly. Status H (div): Keep track of a willing creature’s location and well-being. Telekinetic Maneuver (evo): Disarm, Shove, or Trip a creature telekinetically. Touch of Idiocy (enc): Dull a target’s mind with a touch. Undetectable Alignment U (abj): Make a creature or object appear neutral to alignment detection.
occult	3	Bind Undead (nec): Take control of a mindless undead. Blindness (nec): Strike a target blind. Circle of Protection U, H (abj): A creature emits an aura that protects those within against an alignment. Clairaudience (div): Hear through an invisible magical sensor. Dream Message H (enc): Send a message that arrives in a dream. Enthrall (enc): Your speech makes creatures fascinated with you. Ghostly Weapon (tra): Make a weapon affect incorporeal creatures. Glyph of Warding (abj): Store a spell in a symbol to make a trap. Haste H (tra): Speed up a creature so it can attack or move more often. Heroism H (enc): Stoke a creature’s inner heroism to make it more competent. Hypercognition (div): Recall massive amounts of information in an instant. Hypnotic Pattern (ill): Shifting colors dazzle and fascinate creatures. Invisibility Sphere H (ill): You and creatures near you become invisible as you explore. Levitate (evo): Float an object or creature a few feet off the ground. Locate U, H (div): Learn the direction to an object. Mind Reading U (div): Read a creature’s surface thoughts. Nondetection U (abj): Protect a creature or object from detection. Paralyze H (enc): Freeze a creature in place. Secret Page (ill): Alter the appearance of a page. Slow H (tra): Make a creature slower, reducing its actions. Vampiric Touch H (nec): Deal negative damage and gain temporary HP with a touch. Wanderer’s Guide (div): Find an ideal route to a location. Zone of Truth U (enc): Designate an area where creatures are compelled to be truthful.
occult	4	Blink H (con): Flit between the planes, vanishing and reappearing. Clairvoyance (div): See through an invisible magical sensor. Confusion H (enc): Befuddle a creature, making it act randomly. Detect Scrying U, H (div): Find out if scrying effects are in the area. Dimension Door H (con): Teleport yourself up to 120 feet. Dimensional Anchor (abj): Keep a creature from teleporting or traveling to other planes. Discern Lies U (div): Expertly detect lies and falsehoods. Fly H (tra): Cause the target creature to gain a fly Speed. Gaseous Form (tra): Turn a willing creature into a flying cloud. Glibness U (enc): Lie with impunity. Globe of Invulnerability U (abj): Magical sphere counteracts spells that would enter it. Hallucinatory Terrain U, H (ill): A natural environment appears to be another kind of terrain. Modify Memory U, H (div): Change or implant memories. Nightmare (ill): Plague a creature’s dreams with disturbing nightmares. Outcast’s Curse (enc): Curse a creature to be off-putting and grating. Phantasmal Killer H (ill): Place a fearsome image in a creature’s mind to scare and possibly kill it. Private Sanctum U (abj): Black fog prevents sensing, scrying, and mind‑reading on anyone within. Read Omens U (div): Get a piece of advice about an upcoming event. Remove Curse (nec): Counteract a curse afflicting a creature. Resilient Sphere (abj): Create a sphere of force that blocks anything that would come through. Rope Trick U (con): Animate a rope that rises to an extradimensional hiding place. Spell Immunity (abj): Name a spell to negate its effects on you. Suggestion H (enc): Suggest a course of action a creature must follow. Talking Corpse U (nec): Have a corpse answer three questions. Telepathy H (div): Communicate telepathically with any creatures near you. Veil H (ill): Disguise many creatures as other creatures.
occult	5	Abyssal Plague (nec): Inflict a draining curse. Banishment H (abj): Send a creature back to its home plane. Black Tentacles (con): Tentacles in an area grab creatures. Chromatic Wall H (abj): A wall of light offers a unique protection based on its color. Cloak of Colors (ill): Bright colors dazzle creatures near the target, and attacks cause blinding flashes of light. Crushing Despair H (enc): Make a creature sob uncontrollably. Death Ward (abj): Protect a creature against negative energy. Dreaming Potential (enc): The target retrains in its dreams. False Vision U (ill): Trick a scrying spell. Hallucination H (ill): A creature believes one thing is another, can’t detect something, or sees something that’s not really there. Illusory Scene H (ill): Create an imaginary scene containing multiple creatures and objects. Mariner’s Curse (nec): Infect a creature with the curse of the rolling sea. Mind Probe U (div): Uncover knowledge and memories in a creature’s mind. Prying Eye (div): An invisible eye transmits what it sees to you. Sending (div): Send a mental message to a creature anywhere on the planet and get a reply. Shadow Blast H (evo): Shape a cone of shadow to deal damage of a type you choose. Shadow Siphon (ill): React to lessen the damage from an enemy’s spell by making it partially illusion. Shadow Walk U (con): Travel rapidly via the Shadow Plane. Subconscious Suggestion H (enc): Plant a mental suggestion that must be followed when a trigger occurs. Summon Entity H (con): Conjure an aberration to fight on your behalf. Synaptic Pulse (enc): Slow creatures with a mental blast. Synesthesia H (div): Rewire a creature’s senses. Telekinetic Haul (evo): Move a large object. Telepathic Bond U (div): Link minds with willing creatures to communicate telepathically at great distances. Tongues U, H (div): Let a creature understand and speak all languages.
occult	6	Collective Transposition H (con): Teleport up to two creatures to new positions near you. Dominate U, H (enc): A creature must obey your orders. Feeblemind (enc): Stupefy a creature permanently. Mislead (ill): Turn invisible and create a duplicate of yourself who acts like you. Phantasmal Calamity H (ill): Damage a creature mentally with visions of an apocalypse. Repulsion (abj): Prevent creatures from approaching you. Scrying U (div): Spy on a creature. Spellwrack (abj): Curse a creature to be harmed when a spell is cast on it and lower the duration of its spells. Spirit Blast H (nec): Damage a creature’s spiritual essence. Teleport U, H (con): Transport you and willing creatures a great distance. True Seeing (div): See through illusions and transmutations. Vampiric Exsanguination H (nec): Draw blood and life force from creatures in a cone. Vibrant Pattern (ill): Make a pattern of lights that dazzles and blinds. Wall of Force H (evo): Create an invisible and durable wall of magical force. Zealous Conviction H (enc): Instill unshakable conviction and zeal in willing creatures.
occult	7	Dimensional Lock U (abj): Prevent teleportation and planar travel. Duplicate Foe H (con): Create a temporary duplicate of an enemy that fights for you. Energy Aegis H (abj): A creature gains resistance to acid, cold, electricity, fire, force, and sonic. Ethereal Jaunt U, H (con): Use the Ethereal Plane to move through objects and into the air. Magnificent Mansion U (con): Conjure a secure dwelling in a demiplane. Mask of Terror H (ill): A creature’s fearsome illusory appearance frightens observers. Plane Shift U (con): Transport creatures to another plane of existence. Possession U, H (nec): Send your mind and soul into another creature’s body. Prismatic Spray (evo): Shoot rainbow beams that have various effects on creatures in a cone. Project Image H (ill): Make an illusion of yourself you can cast spells through. Retrocognition H (div): Sense impressions of past events at your location. Reverse Gravity U (evo): Flip the gravitational pull in an area. True Target (div): Make multiple attacks against a creature especially accurate. Visions of Danger H (ill): Create a vision of horrid, swarming creatures that causes mental damage. Warp Mind (enc): Confuse a creature, possibly permanently.
occult	8	Antimagic Field R (abj): Magic doesn’t function in an area around you. Disappearance (ill): Make a creature invisible, silent, and undetectable by any and all senses. Discern Location U (div): Discover a target’s exact location within unlimited range. Dream Council (ill): Communicate through a shared dream. Maze (con): Trap a creature in an extradimensional maze. Mind Blank U (abj): Protect a creature from mental magic and some divinations. Prismatic Wall (abj): Form a protective wall with seven chromatic layers. Scintillating Pattern (ill): Cause an array of color that dazzles, confuses, and stuns. Spirit Song H (nec): Sing an eldritch song that damages any creature that has a spirit. Spiritual Epidemic (nec): Weaken a target with a communicable curse. Uncontrollable Dance (enc): Overcome a target with an all-consuming urge to dance. Unrelenting Observation (div): You and other creatures use scrying to track a subject exactly.
occult	9	Bind Soul U (nec): Imprison a dead creature’s soul. Foresight (div): Sense when a creature is in danger and react to protect it with good fortune. Overwhelming Presence (enc): Take on the majesty of a god. Prismatic Sphere (abj): Form a protective sphere composed of seven chromatic layers. Resplendent Mansion (con): Conjure a mansion that lasts for a day. Telepathic Demand (enc): Send a mental message that impels a creature toward a course of action. Unfathomable Song (enc): Song debilitates creatures in weird ways. Wail of the Banshee (nec): Scream, dealing damage and draining creatures. Weird (ill): Frighten, deal mental damage, and possibly kill large numbers of creatures.
occult	10	Alter Reality (div): Warp reality to duplicate occult spells. Fabricated Truth (enc): Make creatures believe something is fact. Gate U (con): Tear open a portal to another plane. Remake U (con): Recreate a destroyed object. Time Stop (tra): Briefly stop time for everything but you.
primal	0	Acid Splash H (evo): Damage creatures with acid. Dancing Lights (evo): Create four floating lights you can move. Detect Magic H (div): Sense whether magic is nearby. Disrupt Undead H (nec): Damage undead with positive energy. Electric Arc H (evo): Zap one or two creatures with lightning. Guidance (div): Divine guidance improves one roll. Know Direction H (div): Find true north. Light H (evo): Make an object glow. Prestidigitation (evo): Perform a minor magical trick. Produce Flame H (evo): Kindle small flames to attack close or at range. Ray of Frost H (evo): Damage a creature with cold. Read Aura H (div): Detect if an object is magical, and determine the school of its magic. Sigil H (tra): Leave a magical mark. Stabilize (nec): Stabilize a dying creature. Tanglefoot H (con): Conjure a vine to entangle a creature.
primal	1	Air Bubble (con): React to create air for a creature to breathe. Alarm H (abj): Be alerted if a creature enters a warded area. Ant Haul (tra): Target can carry more. Burning Hands H (evo): A small cone of flame rushes from your hands. Charm H (enc): A creature becomes more friendly to you. Create Water (con): Conjure 2 gallons of water. Detect Poison U, H (div): Determine whether an object or creature is poisonous or venomous. Fear H (enc): Frighten a creature, possibly making it flee. Feather Fall (abj): React to slow a creature’s fall. Fleet Step (tra): Make your Speed much faster. Goblin Pox (nec): Infect a creature with goblin pox. Grease (con): Coat a surface or object in slippery grease. Gust of Wind (evo): Wind blows out fires and knocks back objects and creatures. Heal H (nec): Positive energy heals the living or harms the undead, either a single creature or all in a burst. Hydraulic Push H (evo): Damage and push a creature with a blast of water. Jump H (tra): Make an impressive leap. Longstrider H (tra): Increase your Speed for an hour. Magic Fang (tra): Make a creature’s unarmed attacks magical temporarily. Mending H (tra): Repair one non-magical item. Negate Aroma H (abj): Suppress a creature’s scent. Pass without Trace H (abj): Make your tracks hard to find. Pest Form H (tra): Turn into a nonthreatening animal. Purify Food And Drink (nec): Make beverages and meals safe. Shillelagh (tra): Make a club or staff temporarily magical, and deal more damage to unnatural creatures. Shocking Grasp H (evo): Zap a creature with electricity. Spider Sting (nec): Damage a creature and afflict it with spider venom. Summon Animal H (con): Conjure an animal to fight on your behalf. Summon Fey H (con): Conjure a fey to fight on your behalf. Summon Plant or Fungus H (con): Conjure a plant or fungus to fight on your behalf. Ventriloquism H (ill): Throw your voice.
primal	2	Acid Arrow H (evo): Magical arrow deals acid damage persistently. Animal Form H (tra): Turn into a dangerous animal. Animal Messenger (enc): Send a Tiny animal to deliver a message. Barkskin H (abj): Target’s skin is covered in protective bark. Continual Flame H (evo): A magical flame burns indefinitely. Create Food H (con): Conjure food that can feed multiple creatures. Darkness H (evo): Suppress all light in an area. Darkvision H (div): See in the dark. Deafness (nec): Make a creature deaf. Dispel Magic (abj): End a spell or suppress an item’s magic. Endure Elements H (abj): Protect a creature from severe cold or heat. Enhance Victuals H (tra): Improve food or drink and remove poisons. Enlarge H (tra): A creature grows in size. Entangle (tra): Plants in an area grow to entangle and immobilize. Faerie Fire (evo): Colorful light prevents creatures from being concealed or invisible. Flaming Sphere H (evo): A ball of fire rolls about at your command. Gentle Repose H (nec): A corpse doesn’t decay and can’t become undead. Glitterdust (evo): Sparkling dust breaks invisibility and impedes vision. Humanoid Form H (tra): Take the shape of a humanoid. Obscuring Mist (con): Conceal creatures in a cloud of mist. Phantom Steed H (con): Conjure a magical horse. Remove Fear H (enc): Free a creature from its fright. Remove Paralysis H (nec): Free a creature from paralysis. Resist Energy H (abj): Protect a creature from one type of energy damage. Restoration H (nec): Reduce a condition or lessen a toxin. Restore Senses H (nec): Remove a blinding or deafening effect. Shape Wood (tra): Reshape unworked wood as you choose. Shatter H (evo): Shatter an object with a high-frequency sonic attack. Shrink H (tra): Reduce a willing creature to Tiny size. Speak with Animals (div): Communicate with animals. Spider Climb H (tra): Give a creature a climb Speed. Status H (div): Keep track of a willing creature’s location and well-being. Summon Elemental H (con): Conjure an elemental to fight on your behalf. Tree Shape (tra): Turn into a tree. Water Breathing H (tra): Allow creatures to breathe underwater. Water Walk H (tra): Buoy a creature so it can walk on water. Web H (con): Form a web that keeps creatures from moving.
primal	3	Animal Vision (div): Project your senses through an animal. Blindness (nec): Strike a target blind. Earthbind (tra): Bring a flying creature to the ground. Feet to Fins H (tra): Turn a creature’s feet into fins, enabling it swim but slowing it on land. Fireball H (evo): An explosion of fire in an area burns creatures. Glyph of Warding (abj): Store a spell in a symbol to make a trap. Haste H (tra): Speed up a creature so it can attack or move more often. Insect Form H (tra): Turn into a dangerous giant insect. Lightning Bolt H (evo): Lightning strikes all creatures in a line. Meld into Stone (tra): Meld into a block of stone. Neutralize Poison (nec): Cure a poison afflicting a creature. Nondetection U (abj): Protect a creature or object from detection. Remove Disease (nec): Cure a disease afflicting a creature. Searing Light H (evo): A ray of burning light deals extra damage to undead and counteracts darkness. Slow H (tra): Make a creature slower, reducing its actions. Stinking Cloud (con): Form a cloud that sickens creatures. Wall of Thorns H (con): Grow a wall of brambles. Wall of Wind (evo): Create a wall of gusting winds that hinders movement and ranged attacks.
primal	4	Aerial Form H (tra): Turn into a flying combatant. Air Walk (tra): Walk on air as though it were solid ground. Creation H (con): Make a temporary object. Dinosaur Form H (tra): Turn into a dinosaur. Fire Shield H (evo): Flames protect you from cold and harm those that touch you. Fly H (tra): Cause the target creature to gain a fly Speed. Freedom of Movement (abj): A creature overcomes hindrances to its movement. Gaseous Form (tra): Turn a willing creature into a flying cloud. Hallucinatory Terrain U, H (ill): A natural environment appears to be another kind of terrain. Hydraulic Torrent H (evo): Force creatures back with a damaging line of water. Shape Stone (tra): Reshape a cube of stone. Solid Fog (con): Conjure heavy fog that obscures sight and is hard to move through. Speak with Plants (div): Communicate with plants and plant creatures. Stoneskin H (abj): Harden a creature’s skin into durable stone. Vital Beacon H (nec): Radiate vitality that heals creatures that touch you. Wall of Fire H (evo): Create a blazing wall that burns creatures that pass through. Weapon Storm H (evo): Multiply a weapon you hold and attack many creatures with it.
primal	5	Banishment H (abj): Send a creature back to its home plane. Cloudkill H (nec): Poison creatures in a cloud that moves away from you. Cone of Cold H (evo): Bitter cold damages creatures in a cone. Control Water (evo): Raise or lower water in a large area. Death Ward (abj): Protect a creature against negative energy. Elemental Form H (tra): Turn into an elemental. Mariner’s Curse (nec): Infect a creature with the curse of the rolling sea. Moon Frenzy H (tra): Give willing creatures fangs and claws, and send them into a frenzy. Passwall U, H (con): Form an earthen tunnel through a wall. Plant Form H (tra): Turn into a dangerous plant creature. Summon Giant H (con): Conjure a giant to fight on your behalf. Tree Stride U, H (con): Teleport from tree to tree. Wall of Ice H (evo): Sculpt a foot-thick wall of ice that blocks sight and can chill creatures. Wall of Stone H (con): Shape a wall of stone.
primal	6	Baleful Polymorph (tra): Transform a creature into a harmless animal. Chain Lightning H (evo): Lightning jumps from creature to creature. Dragon Form H (tra): Turn into a dragon. Field of Life H (nec): Create a positive energy field that heals those within. Fire Seeds H (evo): Make four explosive acorns. Flesh To Stone (tra): Turn a living creature to a stone statue. Purple Worm Sting (nec): Damage a creature and infect it with purple worm venom. Stone Tell U (div): Speak to spirits within natural stone. Stone to Flesh (tra): Turn a creature turned to stone back to flesh. Tangling Creepers (con): Entangle creatures in a burst and concentrate to lash out with immobilizing vines. True Seeing (div): See through illusions and transmutations.
primal	7	Eclipse Burst H (nec): A globe of darkness deals cold damage, hurts the living, and overcomes light. Energy Aegis H (abj): A creature gains resistance to acid, cold, electricity, fire, force, and sonic. Fiery Body H (tra): Turn your body into living flame. Finger of Death H (nec): Point at a creature to deal negative damage and possibly kill it instantly. Mask of Terror H (ill): A creature’s fearsome illusory appearance frightens observers. Plane Shift U (con): Transport creatures to another plane of existence. Regenerate H (nec): Cause a creature to heal over time, regrow organs, and reattach body parts. Sunburst H (evo): A globe of sunlight deals fire damage, hurts undead, and overcomes darkness. Unfettered Pack H (abj): Let creatures avoid environmental hindrances. Volcanic Eruption H (evo): Cause massive lava sprays that burn creatures and encase them in rock.
primal	8	Earthquake H (evo): Shake the ground with a devastating earthquake. Horrid Wilting H (nec): Pull moisture from creatures, damaging them. Moment of Renewal (nec): Give a day’s recovery in an instant. Monstrosity Form H (tra): Turn into a powerful monster. Polar Ray H (evo): Bitter cold damages and drains a creature. Punishing Winds (evo): A cyclone inhibits flight and traps creatures. Wind Walk (tra): Turn creatures into swift-moving clouds.
primal	9	Disjunction U (abj): Deactivate or destroy a magic item. Implosion H (evo): Make a creature collapse in on itself. Massacre H (nec): Instantly kill multiple creatures. Meteor Swarm H (evo): Call down four blazing meteors that explode. Nature’s Enmity (enc): Turn animals, plants, and weather against creatures of your choice. Shapechange (tra): Transform into a form of your choice repeatedly. Storm of Vengeance H (evo): Create a massive, dangerous storm.
primal	10	Cataclysm (evo): Call an instant, damaging cataclysm. Nature Incarnate (tra): Turn into a massive avatar of nature. Primal Herd (tra): Transform willing creatures into mammoths. Primal Phenomenon (div): Request for nature to duplicate primal spells. Remake U (con): Recreate a destroyed object. Revival (nec): Heal creatures in an area and return the dead to life temporarily.