name	comment	spec_eff	is_weapon_group
Bulwark	The armor covers you so completely that it provides benefits against some damaging effects.		
Comfort	The armor is so comfortable that you can rest normally while wearing it.		
Flexible	The armor is flexible enough that it doesn’t hinder most actions.		
Noisy	This armor is loud and likely to alert others to your presence.		
Chain	The armor is so flexible it can bend with a critical hit and absorb some of the blow.	1	
Composite	The numerous overlapping pieces of this armor protect you from piercing attacks.	1	
Leather	The thick second skin of the armor disperses blunt force to reduce bludgeoning damage.	1	
Plate	The sturdy plate provides no purchase for a cutting edge.	1	
Cloth			
Axe		1	1
Bomb		1	1
Bow		1	1
Brawling		1	1
Club		1	1
Dart		1	1
Flail		1	1
Hammer		1	1
Knife		1	1
Pick		1	1
Polearm		1	1
Shield weapon		1	1
Sling		1	1
Spear		1	1
Sword		1	1
bludgeoning			
piercing			
slashing			
Agile			
Attached			
Backstabber			
Backswing			
Deadly			
Disarm			
Dwarf			
Elf			
Fatal			
Finesse			
Forceful			
Free-Hand			
Gnome			
Goblin			
Grapple			
Halfling			
Jousting			
Monk			
Nonlethal			
Orc			
Parry			
Propulsive			
Reach			
Shove			
Sweep			
Thrown			
Trip			
Twin			
Two-Hand			
Unarmed			
Versatile			
Volley			
Uncommon			
Matter	Also called body, material essence, or physical essence, matter is the fundamental building block that makes up all physical things in the universe. The arcane and primal traditions are especially attuned toward manipulating and shaping matter. Spells that are used to create or alter matter most often come from the conjuration, evocation, or transmutation schools.		
Spirit	Also called soul, ethereal essence, or spiritual essence, spirit is an otherworldly building block that makes up a being’s immaterial and immortal self. The spirit travels through the Ethereal Plane and into the Great Beyond after the death of the physical body. The spirit is most easily affected by divine and occult spells. Spirit spells are usually of the divination or necromancy schools.		
Mind	Also called thought, mental, or astral essence, mind is what allows thinking creatures to have rational thoughts, ideas, plans, logic, and memories. Mind touches even nonsapient creatures like animals, though in a more limited capacity. Arcane and occult casters usually excel at mind spells. Spells that use mind essence are usually found in the divination, enchantment, and illusion schools.		
Life	Also called heart, faith, instinct, or vital essence, life represents the animating universal force within all things. Whereas matter provides the base materials for a body, life keeps it alive and well. This essence is responsible for unconscious responses and belief, such as ancestral instincts and divine guidance. The divine and primal traditions hold power over life. Life spells are usually necromancy.		
Material component	A material component is a bit of physical matter consumed in the casting of the spell.		
Somatic component	A somatic component is a specific hand movement or gesture that generates a magical nexus.		
Verbal component	A verbal component is a vocalization of words of power.		
Focus component	A focus is an object that funnels the magical energy of the spell.		