name	class	price	damage	range	reload	bulk	hands	traits	comment
Alchemical bomb	Martial_weapon	varies	varies	20		L	1	bludgeoning,piercing,slashing,Bomb	These bombs come in a variety of types and levels of power, but no matter the variety, you throw the bomb at the target and it explodes, unleashing its alchemical blast.
Bastard sword	Martial_weapon	4gp	1d8			1	1	slashing,Sword,Two-hand@d12	This broad-bladed sword, sometimes called the hand?and?a?half sword, has a longer grip so it can be held in one hand or used with two hands to provide extra slashing power.
Battle axe	Martial_weapon	1 gp	1d8			1	1	Axe	These axes are designed explicitly as weapons, rather than tools. They typically weigh less, with a shaft reinforced with metal bands or bolts, and have a sharper blade, making them ideal for chopping limbs rather than wood.
Blowgun	Simple_weapon	1 sp	1	20	1	L	1	Dart,Agile, nonlethal	This long, narrow tube is used for shooting blowgun darts, using only the power of a forcefully exhaled breath.
Bo staff	Martial_weapon	2 sp	1d8			2	2	Club,Monk, parry, reach, trip	This strong but slender staff is tapered at the ends and well balanced. It’s designed to be an offensive and defensive weapon.
Clan dagger	Simple_weapon	2 gp	1d4			L	1	piercing,Knife,bludgeoning,dwarf, parry, versatile,uncommon	This broad dagger is carried by dwarves as a weapon, tool, and designation of clan. Losing or having to surrender a clan dagger is considered a mark of embarrassment to most dwarves.
Club	Simple_weapon	0	1d6	10		1	1	Club,Thrown	This is a piece of stout wood shaped or repurposed to bludgeon an enemy. Clubs can be intricately carved pieces of martial art or as simple as a tree branch or piece of wood.
Composite longbow	Martial_weapon	20 gp	1d8	100	0	2	1	Bow,Deadly@d10, propulsive, volley	This projectile weapon is made from horn, wood, and sinew laminated together to increase the power of its pull and the force of its projectile. Like all longbows, its great size also increases the bow’s range and power. You must use two hands to fire it, and it cannot be used while mounted. Any time an ability is specifically restricted to a longbow, such as Erastil’s favored weapon, it also applies to composite longbows unless otherwise stated.
Composite shortbow	Martial_weapon	14 gp	1d6	60	0	1	1	Bow,Deadly@d10, propulsive	This shortbow is made from horn, wood, and sinew laminated together to increase the power of its pull and the force of its projectile. Its compact size and power make it a favorite of mounted archers. Any time an ability is specifically restricted to a shortbow, it also applies to composite shortbows unless otherwise stated.
Crossbow	Simple_weapon	3 gp	1d8	120	1	1	2	Bow	This ranged weapon has a bow-like assembly mounted on a handled frame called a tiller. The tiller has a mechanism to lock the bowstring in place, attached to a trigger mechanism that releases the tension and launches a bolt.
Dagger	Simple_weapon	2 sp	1d4	10		L	1	piercing,Knife,slashing,finesse, thrown, versatile	This small, bladed weapon is held in one hand and used to stab a creature in close combat. It can also be thrown.
Dart	Simple_weapon	1 cp	1d4	20		L	1	Dart,Agile, thrown	This thrown weapon is larger than an arrow but shorter than a javelin. It typically has a short shaft of wood ending in a metal tip and is sometimes stabilized by feathers or fur.
Dogslicer	Martial_weapon	1 sp	1d6			L	1	slashing,Sword,Agile, backstabber, finesse, goblin,uncommon	This short, curved, and crude makeshift blade often has holes drilled into it to reduce its weight. It’s a favored weapon of goblins.
Dwarven waraxe	Advanced_weapon	3 gp	1d8			2	1	Axe,Dwarf, two-hand@d12,uncommon	This favored weapon of the dwarves has a large, ornate head mounted on a thick handle. This powerful axe can be wielded with one hand or two.
Elven curve blade	Martial_weapon	4 gp	1d8			2	2	slashing,Sword,Elf, finesse, forceful,uncommon	Essentially a longer version of the scimitar, this traditional elven weapon has a thinner blade than its cousin.
Falchion	Martial_weapon	3gp	1d10			2	2	slashing,Sword,Forceful, sweep	This weapon is a heavier, two?handed version of the curved-bladed scimitar. It is weighted toward the blade’s end, making it a powerful slashing weapon.
FilcherвЂ™s fork	Martial_weapon	1 gp	1d4	20		L	1	Spear,Agile, backstabber, deadly@d6, finesse, halfling, thrown,uncommon	This halfling weapon looks like a long, two-pronged fork and is used as both a weapon and a cooking implement.
Fist	Unarmed_as_weapon		1d4			0	1	bludgeoning,Brawling,finesse, nonlethal, unarmed	Fist
Flail	Martial_weapon	8 sp	1d6			1	1	bludgeoning,Flail,Disarm, sweep, trip	This weapon consists of a wooden handle attached to a spiked ball or cylinder by a chain, rope, or strap of leather.
Gauntlet	Simple_weapon	2 sp	1d4			L	1	bludgeoning,Brawling,free-hand	"A pair of these metal gloves comes with full plate, half plate, and splint armor; they can also be purchased separately and worn with other types of armor. They not only protect your hands but also transform your hands into lethal weapons."
Glaive	Martial_weapon	1 gp	1d8			2	2	slashing,Polearm,Deadly@d8, forceful, reach	This polearm consists of a long, single-edged blade on the end of a 7-foot pole. It is extremely effective at delivering lethal cuts at a distance.
Gnome flickmace	Advanced_weapon	3 gp	1d6			1	1	bludgeoning,Flail,Gnome, reach, sweep,uncommon	More a flail than a mace, this weapon has a short handle attached to a length of chain with a ball at the end. The ball is propelled to its reach with the flick of the wrist, the momentum of which brings the ball back to the wielder after the strike.
Gnome hooked hammer	Martial_weapon	2 gp	1d6			1	1	Hammer, piercing,Gnome, trip, two-hand@d10, versatile,uncommon	This gnome tool and weapon features a hammer at one end and a curved pick on the other. It’s such a strange and awkward weapon that others think the gnomes are slightly erratic for using it.
Great axe	Martial_weapon	2 gp	1d12			2	2	Axe	This large battle axe is too heavy to wield with only one hand. Many greataxes incorporate two blades, and they are often 'bearded,' having a hook at the bottom to increase the strength of their chopping power.
Greatclub	Martial_weapon	1 gp	1d10			2	2	Club,Backswing,Backswing, shove	While many greatclubs are intricately carved, others are little more than a sturdy tree branch. These massive clubs are too heavy to wield with only one hand.
Greatpick	Martial_weapon	1 gp	1d10			2	2	Pick,fatal@d12	This pick has a longer handle and broader head than a regular pick. It is too heavy to wield in one hand.
Greatsword	Martial_weapon	2 gp	1d12			2	2	slashing,Sword,piercing,Versatile	This immense two-handed sword is nearly as tall as its wielder. Its lower blade is often somewhat dulled to allow it to be gripped for extra leverage in close-quarter fights.
Guisarme	Martial_weapon	2 gp	1d10			2	2	slashing,Polearm,Reach, trip	This polearm bears a long, often one?sided, curved blade with a hook protruding from the blunt side of the blade, which can allow its wielder to trip opponents at a distance. Its shaft is usually 8 feet long.
Halberd	Martial_weapon	2 gp	1d10			2	2	piercing,Polearm,slashing,Reach, versatile	This polearm has a relatively short, 5-foot shaft. The business end is a long spike with an axe blade attached.
Halfling sling staff	Martial_weapon	5 gp	1d10	80	1	1	2	Sling,Halfling,uncommon	This staff ends in a Y-shaped split that cradles a sling. The length of the staff provides excellent leverage when used two?handed to fling rocks or bullets from the sling.
Hand crossbow	Simple_weapon	3 gp	1d6	60	1	L	1	Bow	Sometimes referred to as an alley bow by rogues or ruffians, this small crossbow fires small bolts that are sometimes used to deliver poison to the target. It’s small enough to be shot one-handed, but it still requires two hands to load.
Hatchet	Martial_weapon	4 sp	1d6	10		L	1	Axe,Agile, thrown	This small axe can be used in close combat or thrown.
Heavy crossbow	Simple_weapon	4 gp	1d10	120	2	2	2	Bow	This large crossbow is harder to load and more substantial than a regular crossbow, but it packs a greater punch.
Horsechopper	Martial_weapon	9 sp	1d8			2	2	slashing,Polearm, piercing,Goblin, reach, trip, versatile,uncommon	Created by goblins to battle horses, this weapon is essentially a long shaft ending in a blade with a large hook.
Javelin	Simple_weapon	1 sp	1d6	30		L	1	Dart,Thrown	This thin spear is well balanced for throwing but is not designed for melee use.
Kama	Martial_weapon	1 gp	1d6			L	1	slashing,Knife,monk, trip,uncommon	Similar to a sickle and used in some regions to reap grain, a kama has a short, slightly curved blade and a wooden handle.
Katana	Martial_weapon	2 gp	1d6			1	1	slashing,Sword, piercing,Deadly@d8, two-hand@d10, versatile,uncommon	A katana is a curved, single-edged sword known for its wickedly sharped blade.
Katar	Simple_weapon	3 sp	1d4			L	1	piercing,Knife,deadly@d6, monk,uncommon	Also known as punching daggers, katars are characterized by their H-shaped hand grip that allows the blade to jut out from the knuckles.
Kukri	Martial_weapon	6 sp	1d6			L	1	slashing,Knife,finesse, trip,uncommon	The blade of this foot-long knife curves inward and lacks a cross guard at the hilt.
Lance	Martial_weapon	1 gp	1d8			2	2	Spear,Deadly@d8, jousting@d6, reach	This spear-like weapon is used by a mounted creature to deal a great deal of damage.
Light hammer	Martial_weapon	3 sp	1d6	20		L	1	Hammer,Agile, thrown	This smaller version of the warhammer has a wooden or metal shaft ending in a metal head. Unlike its heavier cousin, it is light enough to throw.
Light mace	Simple_weapon	4 sp	1d4			L	1	Club,Agile, finesse, shove	A light mace has a short wooden or metal shaft ending with a dense metal head. Used much like a club, it delivers heavy bludgeoning blows, but with extra power derived from the head’s metal ridges or spikes.
Light pick	Martial_weapon	4 sp	1d4			L	1	Pick,Agile,fatal@d8	A light pick is a modified mining implement with a wooden shaft ending in a pick head crafted more to pierce armor and flesh than chip rocks.
Longbow	Martial_weapon	6 gp	1d8	100	0	2	1	Bow,Deadly@d10, volley	This 5-foot-tall bow, usually made of a single piece of elm, hickory, or yew, has a powerful draw and is excellent at propelling arrows with great force and at an extreme distance. You must use two hands to fire a longbow, and it can’t be used while mounted.
Longspear	Simple_weapon	5 sp	1d8			2	2	Spear,Reach	This very long spear, sometimes called a pike, is purely for thrusting rather than throwing. Used by many soldiers and city watch for crowd control and defense against charging enemies, it must be wielded with two hands.
Longsword	Martial_weapon	1 gp	1d8			1	1	slashing,Sword,piercing,Versatile	Longswords can be one-edged or two?edged swords. Their blades are heavy and they’re between 3 and 4 feet in length.
Mace	Simple_weapon	1 gp	1d6			1	1	Club,Shove	With a stout haft and a heavy metal head, a mace is sturdy and allows its wielder to deliver powerful blows and dent armor.
Main-gauche	Martial_weapon	5 sp	1d4			L	1	piercing,Knife,slashing,disarm, finesse, parry, versatile	This parrying dagger features a robust guard to protect the wielder’s hand.
Maul	Martial_weapon	3 gp	1d12			2	2	Hammer,Shove	Mauls are massive warhammers that must be swung with two hands.
Morningstar	Simple_weapon	1 gp	1d6			1	1	Club,piercing,Versatile	This weapon has a short shaft ending in a metal ball studded with spikes.
Nunchaku	Martial_weapon	2 sp	1d6			L	1	Club,Backswing, disarm, finesse, monk,uncommon	The nunchaku is constructed of two wooden or metal bars connected by a short length of rope or chain.
Orc knuckle dagger	Martial_weapon	7 sp	1d6			L	1	piercing,Knife,disarm, orc,uncommon	This stout, metal blade of orc design has a horizontal basket hilt with blades jutting from each end, or sometimes one blade like that of a katar.
Orc necksplitter	Advanced_weapon	2 gp	1d8			1	1	Axe,Forceful, orc,uncommon	This single-bladed bearded axe has a jagged blade that’s perfect for separating bone from tendon and cartilage.
Pick	Martial_weapon	7 sp	1d6			1	1	Pick,fatal@d10	A pick designed solely for combat has a sturdy wooden shaft and a heavy, pointed head to deliver devastating blows.
Ranseur	Martial_weapon	2 gp	1d10			2	2	piercing,Polearm,Disarm, reach	This polearm is a long trident with a central prong that’s longer than the other two.
Rapier	Martial_weapon	2 gp	1d6			1	1	piercing,Sword,Deadly@d8, disarm, finesse	The rapier is a long and thin piercing blade with a basket hilt. It is prized among many as a dueling weapon.
Sai	Martial_weapon	6 sp	1d4			L	1	piercing,Knife,bludgeoning,disarm, finesse, monk, versatile,uncommon	This piercing dagger is a metal spike flanked by a pair of prongs that can be used to trap an enemy’s weapon.
Sap	Martial_weapon	1 sp	1d6			L	1	Club,agile,Agile, nonlethal	A sap has a soft wrapping around a dense core, typically a leather sheath around a lead rod. Its head is wider than its grip to disperse the force of a blow, as the weapon’s purpose is to knock out its victim rather than to draw blood.
Sawtooth saber	Advanced_weapon	5 gp	1d6			L	1	slashing,Sword,Agile, finesse, twin,uncommon	The signature weapon of the Red Mantis assassins, this curved blade is serrated like a saw, hence the name.
Scimitar	Martial_weapon	1 gp	1d6			1	1	slashing,Sword,Forceful, sweep	This one-handed curved blade is sharp on one side.
Scythe	Martial_weapon	2 gp	1d10			2	2	slashing,Polearm,Deadly@d10, trip	Derived from a farming tool used to mow down long grains and cereals, this weapon has a long wooden shaft with protruding handles, capped with a curved blade set at a right angle.
Shield bash	Martial_weapon		1d4			0	1	bludgeoning,Shield weapon	A shield bash is not actually a weapon, but a maneuver in which you thrust or swing your shield to hit your foe with an impromptu attack.
Shield boss	Martial_weapon	5 sp	1d6			0	1	bludgeoning,Shield weapon,Attached	Typically a round, convex, or conical piece of thick metal attached to the center of a shield, a shield boss increases the bludgeoning damage of a shield bash.
Shield spikes	Martial_weapon	5 sp	1d6			0	1	piercing,Shield weapon,Attached	These metal spikes are strategically placed on the defensive side of the shield to deal piercing damage with a shield bash.
Shortbow	Martial_weapon	3 gp	1d6	60	0	1	1	Bow,Deadly@d10	This smaller bow is made of a single piece of wood and favored by skirmishers and cavalry.
Shortsword	Martial_weapon	9 sp	1d6			L	1	piercing,Sword,slashing,Agile, finesse, versatile	These blades come in a variety of shapes and styles, but they are typically 2 feet long.
Shuriken	Martial_weapon	1 cp	1d4	20	0	0	1	Dart,Agile, monk, thrown,uncommon	This 'throwing star' is a small piece of flat metal with sharp edges, designed to be flung with a flick of the wrist.
Sickle	Simple_weapon	2 sp	1d4			L	1	slashing,Knife,finesse, trip	Originally a farming tool used for reaping grain, this one-handed weapon has a short wooden handle ending in a curved blade, sometimes sharpened on both sides.
Sling	Simple_weapon	0	1d6	50	1	L	1	Sling	Little more than a leather cup attached to a pair of straps, a sling can be used to fling smooth stones or sling bullets at a range.
Spear	Simple_weapon	1 sp	1d6	20		1	1	Spear,Thrown	A long metal shaft ending with a metal spike, a spear can be used one-handed as a melee weapon and can be thrown.
Spiked chain	Martial_weapon	3 gp	1d8			1	2	slashing,Flail,Disarm, finesse, trip,uncommon	This 4?foot?long length of chain is covered with barbs and has spikes on one or both ends. Some feature metal hoops used as handgrips.
Spiked gauntlet	Simple_weapon	3 sp	1d4			L	1	piercing,Brawling,free-hand	Providing the same defensive function as a standard gauntlet, this version has a group of spikes protruding from the knuckles to deliver piercing damage with a punch.
Staff	Simple_weapon	0	1d4			1	1	Club,Two-hand@d8	This long piece of wood can aid in walking and deliver a mighty blow.
Starknife	Martial_weapon	2 gp	1d4	20		L	1	piercing,Knife,slashing,deadly@d6, finesse, thrown, versatile	From a central metal ring, four tapering metal blades extend like points on a compass rose. When gripping a starknife from the center, the wielder can use it as a melee weapon. It can also be thrown short distances.
Temple sword	Martial_weapon	2 gp	1d8			1	1	slashing,Sword,Monk, trip,uncommon	This heavy blade is favored by guardians of religious sites. It has a distinctive, crescent-shaped blade that seems to be a mix of a sickle and sword. It often has holes drilled into the blade or the pommel so that bells or other holy trinkets can be affixed to the weapon as an aid for prayer or mediation.
Trident	Martial_weapon	1 gp	1d8	20		1	1	Spear,Thrown	This three-pronged, spear-like weapon typically has a 4-foot shaft. Like a spear, it can be wielded with one hand or thrown.
War flail	Martial_weapon	2 gp	1d10			2	2	bludgeoning,Flail,Disarm, sweep, trip	This large flail has a long shaft connected to a shorter piece of stout wood or metal that’s sometimes inlaid with spikes.
Warhammer	Martial_weapon	1 gp	1d8			1	1	Hammer,Shove	This weapon has a wooden shaft ending in a large, heavy metal head. The head of the hammer might be single-sided or double-sided, but it’s always capable of delivering powerful bludgeoning blows.
Whip	Martial_weapon	1 sp	1d4			1	1	slashing,Flail,Disarm, finesse, nonlethal, reach, trip	This long strand of thick leather, often braided, delivers a painful but nonlethal slash at a distance, usually accompanied by a distinctive cracking sound.
